THE REPAIR PROCESS WORKBOOK
By Dr. Hazel-Grace Yates
WWW.DRHAZELGRACE.COM
Page 2: Introduction & Copyright
The REPAIR Process™ Workbook
The REPAIR Process™ by Dr. Hazel-Grace Yates is a roadmap to harmony, a toolkit of resilience, and a foundation of unwavering confidence to access generative conflict. Discover the art of repairing conflicts, rebuilding trust, and reuniting in deeper intimacy.
The REPAIR Process™ Workbook
Copyright 2023, Dr. Hazel-Grace Yates
All Rights Reserved. First Edition.
This workbook or any portion thereof may not be reproduced or used in any manner whatsoever without the express written permission of Dr. Hazel-Grace Yates.
Created in Collaboration with Sophia Faria.
Developed by Dr. Hazel-Grace Yates.
Copywriting and copy editing by Sophia Faria.
Contributors: Nico Garvin, Davida Garvin.
Questions or comments, please email me at: hazelgraceyates@gmail.com
www.drhazelgrace.com
Page 3 & 4: Table of Contents
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Welcome .......................................................................... 1
The Repair Process™ .................................................... 2
Appreciations & Credits ................................................ 3
The Invitation .................................................................. 4
Self-Reflection ................................................................ 5
The Gifts of Repair .......................................................... 6
Meta Concepts of Repair ............................................... 7
Resourcing ....................................................................... 8
Resourcing Self-Practice R1 ................................... 14
Resourcing Self-Practice R2 ................................... 15
Resourcing Self-Practice R3 ................................... 16
Resourcing Self-Practice R4 ................................... 17
Empathy ........................................................................... 18
Empathy Self-Practice E1 ...................................... 20
Empathy Self-Practice E2 ...................................... 22
Empathy Self-Practice E3 ...................................... 23
Permission ...................................................................... 24
Permission Self-Practice P1 ................................... 27
Permission Self-Practice P2 ................................... 33
Permission Relational Practice P3 ........................ 34
Clearing the Air Conversation ...................................... 35
Acknowledge .................................................................. 36
Acknowledge Relational Practice A1 .................... 47
Acknowledge Relational Practice A2 .................... 48
Acknowledge Relational Practice A3 .................... 49
Impact .............................................................................. 51
Impact Relational Practice I1 ................................. 56
Impact Self-Practice I2 ........................................... 57
Impact Self-Practice I3 ........................................... 58
Restoring Integrity ......................................................... 60
Restore Integrity Self-Practice RA1 ........................ 69
Restoring Integrity Self-Practice RA2 ........................ 69
Restoring Integrity Self-Practice RA3 ........................ 70
Restoring Integrity Relational Practice RA4 .............. 70
Restoring Integrity Relational Practice RA5 .............. 71
Putting It All Together Practice .................................... 72
REPAIR Afterthoughts ................................................... 73
Celebrate Yourself ......................................................... 74
Page 5: Welcome
WELCOME
Growing up in a house that used yelling to resolve conflict resulted in me being in toxic relationships for nearly two decades. I was committed to learning tools to create healthy relationships. In working with people around sex and intimacy for over 13 years, I saw clients, again and again, who wanted better sex and intimacy. I realized what was often in the way was unresolved hurt and the inability to move through conflict in a generative way.
The REPAIR Process™ was created based on my personal journey and from coaching thousands of clients. I got to heal my relationship with my dad and am now in a healthy, vibrant, secure partnership. I'm passionate about other people learning these skills because I also want them to have epic and secure relationships.
Meaningful relationships will inevitably experience challenges. The health of our relationship is reflective of our ability to repair and learn from these ruptures.
In response, I developed a powerful REPAIR process for you to learn the skills that turn ruptures into intimate connection. Rather than being bad news, difficult moments can be powerful opportunities. With the right skills, they become doorways to deeper connection.
Generative conflict can lead us to feel more intimately connected by understanding more about ourselves and each other. Rather than hoping our relationships will always be easy, we can learn the skills that bring us closer to the ones we love.
Through the REPAIR process generative conflict is accessible.
XOXO,
dr Hazel-Grace
Page 6: The REPAIR Process™ Diagram
The REPAIR Process™ Workbook
By Dr. Hazel-Grace Yates
Fulfilling relationships thrive on our ability to skillfully navigate conflict. Hazel-Grace has developed a powerful REPAIR process for you to learn the skills that turn ruptures into deeper connection.
Preparation Conversation
R - RESOURCING: Ground yourself so that you can say what you mean while being able to listen to the other from your heart.
E - EMPATHY: Give yourself the space to feel the impact of your own hurt and bring curiosity to the other person's experience.
P - PERMISSION: Establish mutual safety and get explicit consent to set both people up for success in resolving the conflict.
Clearing the AIR Conversation
A - ACKNOWLEDGE: Get on the same page on what happened by validating one another's perception of their experience.
I - IMPACT: Share and deeply listen to the impact both people experienced.
R - RESTORE INTEGRITY: Choose from a menu of five actionable ways to actively restore trust and connection.
Page 7: Appreciations & Credits
APPRECIATIONS & CREDITS
I deeply thank and acknowledge some of the key programs and individuals who have influenced and shaped this body of work. I am humbled and honored that your wisdom lives through me and others benefit from the contribution you made in my life.
Integral Center Circling Facilitation Training
Nonviolent Communication by Marshall Rosenberg
Bridging Soma and Soul Certification By Katie Asmus and Sweigh Spilkin
Queer Competency Certification by Terra Anderson
Landmark Education
Nico Garvin, Paul Sterling, Z Griss, AJ Pape, Sara Ness, Josh Levin
Bob Bond, Jayson Gaddis, Reid Mihalko, Vicky and Bobby Yates, Ashley Berry, Danny Morris
Hazel-Grace's Lenses and Identities
I wish to share with you the lenses and identities I carry in service of being transparent about how I have moved through the world. My experiences directly inform this body of work. I acknowledge the gifts of my privilege and any inherent blindspots I may have. I continue to evolve as I learn more so that this work can be as inclusive as possible. I am white, assigned female at birth, highly educated, gender fluid, hard of hearing (able-bodied otherwise), middle class, kinky, polyamorous, 5th generation immigrant from the Celtic region, grew up with violence in the home, in a secure partnership, and surrounded by a supportive community.
Current limited scope of this workbook
This workbook is a living, dynamic, and ever-evolving document. I am committed to future iterations that will include more nuanced themes such as power differences, identity intersectionality, attachment styles, and a more in-depth explanation from the trauma lens. It is important to have awareness of these contexts when working with The REPAIR Process.
Page 8: The Invitation
THE INVITATION
“The quality of our relationships determines the quality of our life” - Esther Perel
“The invitation is to see conflict as an opportunity, a doorway, a calling to deeper connection." - A.J. Pape
Definitions
Conflict - A break in connection or trust.
Intimacy - Feeling connected, seen, and sharing mutual trust, care and acceptance.
Generative Conflict - The ability to move through conflict in such a way that creates MORE trust and connection.
Humans crave connection, and the quality of our relationships is directly linked to our sense of well-being. We fundamentally want to be seen for who we are.
Imagine there is a piece of glass between us and no unresolved conflicts in our relationship; metaphorically, the glass is clear. You and I can both see each other and be seen clearly. If we have unresolved conflicts, it's like there is mud on the glass, and we can't see each other clearly. The intention of being able to repair consistently is to create the conditions to be seen and see the other clearly. When we get to see each other clearly, we create more intimacy, ease, and connection.
When we don't have the skills, commitment, or capacity to move towards clearing conflict, it builds up like a mountain, and we either avoid it entirely or, like a volcano, we may explode. The invitation is for you to ultimately be confident and competent to lean into clearing conflict. When you lean in instead of avoiding conflict, you get to return to a place of connection and intimacy sooner. An underlying intention of this course is to expand your ability to be more comfortable in the uncomfortable. Clearing conflict may not always feel easy; however, my wish for you is to increase your comfort and capacity when navigating conflict.
Page 9: Self-Reflection
SELF-REFLECTION
Connecting to your reasons for being here, what are your intentions for learning The REPAIR Process?
My Intentions:
[Space for writing]
Reflect on your current relationship to conflict.
What were you taught about conflict growing up?
[Space for writing]
What thoughts or feelings do you notice when you hear the word conflict?
[Space for writing]
When conflict arises, how do you often respond?
[Space for writing]
How do you want to feel and be when conflict happens?
[Space for writing]
Page 10: The Gifts of Repair
THE GIFTS OF REPAIR
There are bountiful gifts on the other side of moving through something hard and uncomfortable.
Enthusiasm - It is possible to clear conflict with so much care, competency, and love that you can feel enthusiasm and excitement for using The REPAIR Process.
Boldness - If you trust yourself and have the skills to repair conflict, your confidence to go for what you want increases; be bold and take risks.
Life-giving - Unresolved conflict takes up an enormous amount of energy, and creates anxiety and stress. When you clear conflict, your whole system will feel more energized, relaxed, and you will have a greater sense of well-being.
Kintsugi - In many cases, the act of repairing the relationship can make the relationship even stronger than it was before.*
A great analogy is the Japanese art of repairing broken objects, often ceramic pottery or glass, with gold. Kintsugi means ‘join with gold.' It's an art form in which gold lacquer is used to piece shards together again, creating a more beautiful object than the original through the acts of breaking and repair.
*Crediting Terra Anderson from www.embodyemerge.com for linking this distinction with repair.
Page 11: Meta Concepts of Repair
META CONCEPTS OF REPAIR
Things to consider before going into the granular details of The REPAIR Process.
Repair is not always linear; it's a process. Even though REPAIR is a 6-step process, it does not always have a timeline with a definitive beginning and end. Even when you go through The REPAIR Process on a particular challenge or conflict, you may have to revisit different steps to feel the connection and trust restored.
We may fumble, so be gentle. Most of us are fumbling in the dark when resolving conflict because healthy role models or easy ways to navigate conflict didn't exist growing up. Be gentle with yourself and others as you build new skills.
Don't start with the most intense or complex challenges. When learning new skills, practice them on lower-intensity or simpler conflicts. I highly recommend people to be in the practice of clearing more minor conflicts regularly. This supports feeling successful and competent, boosting your confidence in navigating challenging conflicts.
Repair conversations may not always be possible, or at least not yet. It can be an empowering, conscious choice to discern whether doing a REPAIR process feels safe enough or worth your emotional labor.
Either party can initiate the REPAIR Process. This may be the person who felt a break in connection or trust OR the person who did/didn't do something that broke connection or trust.
The REPAIR Process is only as effective as your genuine desire to repair the conflict. Simply going through the motions without empathy and attunement will render the process ineffective. Your words and expressive embodiment (tone of voice, body language, etc.) must be congruent.
Go Slow and follow the structure. So much of The REPAIR Process is about going slow so that we can come back into connection sooner. The ‘REP' is the preparation for the 'Clearing the AIR Conversation'. Taking the time for RESOURCING, EMPATHY, and PERMISSION optimizes your chances for resolving the conflict with efficiency and care. Following the structure gives you tools and practice to form the habit of going slower. Going slow almost never has negative consequences, and going too fast is one of the biggest culprits for people not being able to resolve conflicts.
Page 12: Resourcing (Part 1)
RESOURCING
RESOURCING refers to setting up the nervous system for success. When you are resourced, you are grounded and centered in your heart. This allows you to both listen accurately and communicate clearly what you mean to say.
While RESOURCING is the first step, you will also be practicing RESOURCING throughout the entire REPAIR process.
Our Brilliant Evolutionary Brain & Nervous System
What does the nervous system (including the brain) have to do with communication? Let's start by understanding some basics of how our brilliant brains function.
To oversimplify our exquisitely complex nervous system, I will share what happens when we are either in a regulated state or a dysregulated state.
Words associated with a regulated state can include centered, calm, grounded, etc.
Words associated with a dysregulated state can include triggered, upset, activated, etc.
Dysregulated State = Under-Resourced State
Dysregulated state is an imbalance between the two branches of the autonomic nervous systems and will often cause us to respond (thoughts, feelings, behavior) in an inappropriate (disproportional) way to an event, person, or situation, either by under-reacting or over-reacting. It is usually caused by unresolved, unfinished stress responses from our past.
When we are in a dysregulated state, the reptilian brain, the oldest part of our brain, is activated, and we are operating from survival. Our responses are limited to fight, flight, freeze or fawn. In this state, our perspective narrows, things move quickly, are black and white, and do not allow us to see the whole picture.
Page 13: Resourcing (Part 2)
RESOURCING
A dysregulated state causes us to listen through our unconscious filters. These filters were often developed in childhood as a way to survive and make sense of our world. For example, if you were raised in a highly critical environment, you may have created an "I'm bad. I've done something wrong” filter. This results in hyperfocusing on how others might be judging you critically.
Therefore, when our nervous system is dysregulated, we may add interpretations or meanings that may or may not be there. This can result in misunderstandings or misinterpretations. It's as if there are two different conversations happening at the same time, even though both parties THINK they are having the same conversation.
So what can we do to ensure we are having the SAME conversation and we are able to hear what is actually being communicated?
We can slow things down and RESOURCE the nervous system so that we can access the newer parts of our evolutionary brain.
Regulated State = Resourced State
Regulated state is characterized by the ability to flexibly move between different states of activation, proportional to the stressors. This means that when we encounter a change in our environment, like a stressful situation, we can adapt so that we are not overwhelmed.
In a more regulated state, we have greater access to the newer parts of our evolutionary brain, the neocortex and the limbic system. With more access to this part of our brain, there is more availability for:
Moving slowly
Care
Creativity
Empathy
Problem Solving
Holding multiple perspectives
All of this supports us in navigating generative conflict. It is no accident that RESOURCING is the first step in The REPAIR Process since it is one of the most important steps.
RESOURCING will help you say what you mean and hear what the other person is intending to communicate, and come from a heart-centered, compassionate place.
Page 14: Resourcing (Impacts on Communication)
RESOURCING
Impacts on Communication
Your Nervous System: Under Resourced VS. Resourced
Under Resourced (Empty fuel gauge)
Not saying what you mean to say
Not accurately hearing the other
Less access to empathy and curiosity
Tunnel vision
Resourced (Full fuel gauge)
Say what you mean to say
Hearing the other accurately
Access to empathy and curiosity
Bird's eye view
Page 15: How Do I Resource? (Part 1)
HOW DO I RESOURCE?
RESOURCING is a conscious practice to intentionally shift the dysregulated state into a more regulated state. While RESOURCING is the first step, you will also be actively RESOURCING your nervous system throughout the entire REPAIR process. There is no right way to resource your nervous system. There are infinite ways, and each person's process is unique.
A solid foundation for a resourced state begins with being well-rested, well-fed, and not in an altered state.
WAYS TO DISCHARGE INTENSITY
Journaling
Talking to a therapist or supportive friend
Pillow punching
Screaming into your hands or a pillow
Pushing against a wall or someone's hands
Dancing
Creating art
Listening to music that moves energy
Self-pleasuring
Kink play that supports releasing intensity
Vigorous exercising
SUBTLER WAYS TO RESOURCE
Body scanning
Meditating
Connecting with nature (laying on the ground, hugging a tree, getting in water, hiking, etc.)
Looking around the room, including behind you
Looking at something that is pleasing to you
Noticing your body parts that are touching the earth, floor, or your seat
Scanning for what feels good in your body and hanging out there
Placing your hand/s on body parts that feel good
Visualizing a safe space or place
Tapping into your specific spiritual connections (The Divine, field of love, energetic matrix, the earth, etc.)
Receiving nourishing touch from another
Using a weighted blanket
Page 16: How Do I Resource? (Part 2)
HOW DO I RESOURCE?
The goal with resourcing as the first step is to do what you can to shift your dysregulated state into a more regulated state as much as you can on your own before having the 'Clearing the AIR Conversation,' which happens when you are complete with REP.
RESOURCING PERSONAL REAL-LIFE EXAMPLE:
My partner said to me in an impassioned tone: “I am frustrated there are eggshells at the bottom of the cooler."
As I heard him saying that I noticed in my body:
Sensations: heat in my body, contraction in my belly, shoulders pulled back
Feelings: Confused, annoyed, defensive
My conscious attempt to regulate:
Take a deep breathe and feel my feet connected to the ground
Slow things down before responding verbally
Page 17: Resourcing (Self-Reflection)
RESOURCING
Self-Reflection
What type of resourcing works well for you?
Ways I discharge intensity
[Space for writing]
Subtler ways I discharge.
[Space for writing]
Page 18: Self-Practice R1
SELF-PRACTICE R1
GUIDED BODY SCAN
PURPOSE
BODY SCAN IS A PRACTICE THAT ALLOWS YOU TO NOTICE OBJECTIVELY WHAT IS HAPPENING IN YOUR BODY IN SERVICE OF BOTH INCREASING YOUR SOMATIC (BODY) AWARENESS, COMING INTO THE PRESENT MOMENT AND RESOURCING YOUR NERVOUS SYSTEM.
WHAT YOU NEED: • 5 MINUTES • QUIET SPACE
GUIDANCE
Invite your body to feel the ground; notice what it's like to bring your attention there. What happens all by itself as your physical body notices the ground? Do you feel more pressure or less pressure?
Next, feel your own breath. Feel your torso expanding and contracting with your breath.
Bring your awareness to the top of your head, and bring curiosity. As you bring your attention there, notice if there is a sensation, a felt sense, or an image.
As you bring attention to your jaw, do you notice a difference between the top of your head and your jaw? Does anything feel similar?
Continue bringing your attention to the rest of your body.
At the end of the body scan, notice if your body feels different than before you started.
(THOUGHTS & REFLECTIONS)
[Lined space for writing]
Page 19: Self-Practice R2
SELF-PRACTICE R2
THE CHARGE SCALE
PURPOSE
TO TRACK YOUR LEVEL OF INTENSITY.
WHAT YOU NEED: • 5 MINUTES • QUIET SPACE
GUIDANCE
Call upon an unresolved conflict (say it out loud, write it down, visualize it, etc.).
Notice what you feel in your body (sensations and emotions). Give yourself permission to feel yourself FULLY! You will likely feel emotions such as anger, heartbreak, grief, disgust, fear, shame, jealousy, disappointment, rage, hurt, frustration, irritation, etc. You may feel sensations such as tension, trembling, contraction, shaky, frozen, numbness, heat, etc.
Rate your level of intensity (“charge”) on a scale between 1-10. 1 being low intensity and 10 being high intensity.
INTENSITY OF CHARGE SCALE EXAMPLES:
1 = feels like a mild activation, quieter, more subtle sensations and contractions.
5 = feels like you're present to your body and the sensations coming up. You're noticeably upset but you are still grounded enough to have your awareness. Your activation hasn't overtaken the logical part of your brain.
10 = feels almost like you are in an altered state of consciousness; you might feel a lack of control over what is happening in your body or what you're saying. Everything is moving fast and you might feel inconsolable. You're not grounded in reality and there isn't much logic. You're not very trustworthy at this point.
THE CHARGE SCALE
[Image of a scale from 1 to 10, with a calm face at 1 (Low Intensity) and an angry face at 10 (High Intensity)]
Image Credit: Dr. Hazel-Grace Yates
Page 20: Self-Practice R3
SELF-PRACTICE R3
ACTIVE RESOURCING
PURPOSE
TO MOVE FROM A DYSREGULATED STATE TO A REGULATED STATE THROUGH RESOURCING.
WHAT YOU NEED: • 10 MINUTES • QUIET SPACE • JOURNAL • A RESOURCING PRACTICE THAT WORKS WELL FOR YOU
GUIDANCE
Set a timer for 2-3 minutes.
a. Call upon an unresolved conflict (say it out loud, write it down, visualize it, etc.).
b. Name out loud the sensations and emotions you are present to.
c. Identify your level of intensity using the charge scale (1-10). Next, feel your own breath. Feel your torso expanding and contracting with your breath.
Set a timer for 3-5 minutes. Move from deregulation to regulation by practicing resourcing.
Once you've completed your resourcing practice, identify your current level of intensity using the charge scale (1-10).
OPTIONAL:
Repeat the process to decrease your charge.
Journal what you noticed or learned.
[Image of The Charge Scale]
Image Credit: Dr. Hazel-Grace Yates
Page 21: Relational Practice R4
RELATIONAL PRACTICE R4
CO-REGULATION
PURPOSE
TO PRACTICE RESOURCING AND REGULATING WITH THE SUPPORT OF ANOTHER PERSON (A PRACTICE PARTNER).
WHAT YOU NEED: • 10 MINUTES • PRIVATE SPACE WHERE YOU FEEL COMFORTABLE TO SHARE • A RESOURCING PRACTICE THAT WORKS WELL FOR YOU • A COMPASSIONATE LISTENING PRACTICE PARTNER WHO IS NOT INVOLVED IN THE UNRESOLVED CONFLICT
GUIDANCE
The listening practice partner: the role of the compassionate practice partner is to listen, stay grounded, witness, and hold a loving presence (no advice-giving).
The sharing partner will move through the following steps:
Set a timer for 2-3 minutes.
a. Call upon an unresolved conflict (that is NOT about your listening partner).
b. Name out loud the sensations and emotions you are present to.
c. Identify your level of intensity using the charge scale (1-10).
Set a timer for 3-5 minutes. Practice resourcing; you may include your partner in the resourcing practice (i.e., nourishing touch, push against hands, etc.).
Once you've completed your resourcing practice, identify your current level of intensity using the charge scale (1-10).
OPTIONAL:
Repeat the process to decrease your charge.
Ask your partner what they noticed.
Share with your partner if you were aware of their presence.
Page 22: Empathy (Introduction)
EMPATHY
EMPATHY (for self and others) within The REPAIR Process is to both explore how this conflict has impacted you and to extend curiosity towards the other.
This step is done on your own either internally or with a trusted person who is not involved in the conflict.
Empathy - The ability to put yourself in someone's position and imagine what they might be feeling.
Compassion - The feeling of care when someone is suffering, accompanied by the desire to alleviate the pain.
There are two steps to EMPATHY: step one is having empathy or self-compassion for yourself, and step two is exploring empathy for the other. Exercising empathy for self and others is another RESOURCING practice.
While it is not necessary for you to reach empathy for the other before moving to the next step in The REPAIR Process, it can be incredibly supportive to attempt exploring empathy for the other. By exercising curiosity about the other, you are also actively aware that you may not have all the information yet about what was going on for the other person.
Page 23: Empathy (Step 1)
EMPATHY
STEP 1: EMPATHY for self = self-compassion
Compassion towards yourself looks like exploring your feelings and doing so with care and gentleness. It's giving yourself permission to feel your feelings, and allowing space to admit and be with all aspects of your experience.
Self-compassion is important, especially when we minimize our feelings, try to be tough, or avoid being perceived as “weak” or “too sensitive.”
One way to offer self-compassion is to connect with your inner child and validate and reassure them that their feelings are real and valid. You are speaking to yourself as if you would speak to a young child who feels hurt.
Another way you can practice empathy with yourself is by imagining the empathy you would offer to a friend in the same situation. Think about what you would say to your friend to express compassion and empathy, but then mirror those responses and feelings back to yourself.
Some things I might say to my friend (and what my self-talk could sound like):
"That sounds really hard.”
"That makes sense that you feel that way.”
"Of course you feel that way!"
"It's valid that you feel that way."
“I imagine you feel really hurt/sad/angry/disappointed/confused/shocked, etc."
"It's okay for you to feel whatever you are feeling.”
Page 24: Self-Practice E1
SELF-PRACTICE E1
EMPATHY FOR SELF = SELF-COMPASSION
PURPOSE
TO GIVE YOURSELF TIME TO EXPLORE YOUR FEELINGS BY EXTENDING CURIOSITY AND COMPASSION TOWARDS YOURSELF.
WHAT YOU NEED: • 5 MINUTES • JOURNAL • QUIET SPACE
GUIDANCE
Call upon the same unresolved conflict you practiced from the RESOURCING step.
Ask yourself, because this thing did or didn't happen
a. How did that feel?
b. What was that like for me?
c. What was the impact on my heart, body, life?
(THOUGHTS & REFLECTIONS)
[Lined space for writing]
Page 25: Empathy (Step 2)
EMPATHY
STEP 2: EMPATHY for other = Anticipatory Understanding
Anticipatory Understanding is the practice of extending curiosity and attempting to understand what might've been going on for the other person at the time of the conflict.
It's the recognition that you might not have all the information or understand what is going on for the other person. Even recognizing “I don't know what's going on for the other person, or I don't understand the whole picture yet” creates some curiosity and spaciousness. Creating spaciousness is an example of RESOURCING.
Imagine how it might feel if you made a mistake and learned that someone else practiced anticipatory understanding BEFORE they asked for a REPAIR process. How does that feel, knowing they took the time to explore what might have been going on for you?
Exploring/having EMPATHY for the other person doesn't mean you are making what they did or didn't do okay. For example, in a past conflict where someone lied to me, I feared having EMPATHY for why they lied because I was worried I would be condoning the lying behavior. I could distinguish between having EMPATHY for the other and MY boundary. A boundary means it is not okay to be treated a certain way.
In this case, I was curious and wanted to understand why they lied, AND I have a boundary that lying to me is not an acceptable way of being in my relationship.
Example Story of anticipatory understanding:
Using the same example from above, when my partner said to me in an impassioned tone, “I am frustrated there are eggshells at the bottom of the cooler.”
After practicing RESOURCING by taking a breath and pausing before I responded, I got curious about what was happening for him:
“Is he hungry?”
“Is he stressed with the heat and pressure of time?”
“Is he reacting to an agreement I am not remembering?”
Exploring these possibilities allowed me to soften and bring curiosity to the conversation.
Page 26: Self-Practice E2
SELF-PRACTICE E2
EMPATHY TOWARDS OTHERS (ANTICIPATORY UNDERSTANDING)
PURPOSE
TO PRACTICE EXTENDING CURIOSITY AND ATTEMPTING TO UNDERSTAND WHAT MIGHT'VE BEEN GOING ON FOR THE OTHER PERSON AT THE TIME OF THE CONFLICT.
WHAT YOU NEED: • 5 MINUTES • JOURNAL • QUIET SPACE
GUIDANCE
Call upon the same unresolved conflict you practiced from the RESOURCING step.
Journal: Ask yourself, because this thing did or didn't happen...
a. How were they feeling overall at the time?
b. What else might have been going on for them at the time?
c. What might be the impact on them that they did or didn't do that thing?
(THOUGHTS & REFLECTIONS)
[Lined space for writing]
Page 27: Relational Practice E3
RELATIONAL PRACTICE E3
EMPATHY FOR SELF & OTHER
PURPOSE
TO PRACTICE EXPLORING EMPATHY FOR SELF AND OTHER WITH A PRACTICE PARTNER.
WHAT YOU NEED: • 10 MINUTES • A COMPASSIONATE PRACTICE PARTNER
GUIDANCE
Call upon an unresolved conflict with anyone other than your practice partner.
Ask your practice partner if they are willing to listen as you explore EMPATHY about an unresolved conflict (that is not about them).
Give your partner the headline of the conflict, then share:
a. EMPATHY for self
b. EMPATHY for other (aka Anticipatory Understanding)
Ask your partner, “What was it like to hear me share that?"
(THOUGHTS & REFLECTIONS)
[Lined space for writing]
Page 28: Permission (Introduction)
PERMISSION
The PERMISSION step contexts the conversation and gets informed consent, which will set both people up for success in the “Clearing the AIR Conversation."
Have you ever been caught off guard when someone brings up a challenging conversation? Or, have you ever felt lost or confused about the purpose or where a conversation is heading?
Taking the time and being thorough with the PERMISSION step:
Prevents people from feeling caught off guard
Ensures both people feel RESOURCED
Provides purpose and clarity for the conversation
There are 5 components in framing the PERMISSION step
Headline the conversation
Share the Desired Outcome
Reveal your level of charge
Estimate the time frame
Ask if they feel available for this conversation
Page 29: Permission (Headline the Conversation - Part 1)
PERMISSION
1. Headline the Conversation
Give a brief snapshot or name the topic you want to talk about. In this part, you are being specific, owning your experience and sharing objectively (just the facts) vs. your subjective interpretation.
Subjective - information or perspectives based on feelings, opinions, or emotions.
Objective - information based on facts that all parties can agree on.
Here are some examples of what to say, including objective headlining phrases.
"I want to talk about...
how our meeting about _____ went.
the conversation we had last night about _____.
what you said to the clerk at the store yesterday.
the house chores.
the text message I received from you this morning.
Why do I need to avoid using subjective interpretations?
Subjective interpretations are essentially unchecked assumptions. You can't know someone else's experience, especially if you haven't asked them how they experienced the event or how they felt. For example, you might interpret someone as being angry in the conversation you had, when they felt confused or surprised. The risk of subjective interpretations is that it can create divisiveness, defensiveness or a lack of safety.
Here are some examples of what NOT to say, including subjective interpretations. Starting with, “I want to talk about...
the fight we had last night.
your problematic behavior.
how you stormed out of the house last night.
you being huffy.
your bad attitude.
how you made me angry.
how you ignored me this morning.
Page 30: Permission (Headline the Conversation - Part 2)
PERMISSION
1. Headline the Conversation
Objective facts are things that can be captured with a camera. For example, a camera would capture a facial gesture, but not the meaning of the facial gesture. This is distinct from subjective interpretations, which are unchecked assumptions.
OBJECTIVE STATEMENTS	SUBJECTIVE STATEMENTS
You shut the door loud enough that I could hear it outside.	You slammed the door in anger.
We left the party before they served cake.	We left the party super early.
You did not look me in the eyes when you came home.	You completely ignored me when you came home.
I paraphrased what you said.	I totally understand what you are feeling.
Page 31: Self-Practice P1
SELF-PRACTICE P1
OBJECTIVE VS. SUBJECTIVE FACTS
PURPOSE
TO PRACTICE DISTINGUISHING OBJECTIVE FACTS FROM SUBJECTIVE INTERPRETATIONS.
WHAT YOU NEED: • 5 MINUTES
GUIDANCE
Complete the table below by filling in all the blank spaces. In the three lines, fill in both sides with your own personal examples.
OBJECTIVE STATEMENTS	SUBJECTIVE STATEMENTS
You were texting while we discussed our weekend plans.	[Blank]
[Blank]	You are really mad at me.
You did not put your dishes in the dishwasher.	[Blank]
[Blank]	You always tell me what to do.
[Blank]	[Blank]
[Blank]	[Blank]
[Blank]	[Blank]
Page 32: Permission (Desired Outcomes)
PERMISSION
2. Desired Outcomes
Stating your desire, and inspiring the other person to have the conversation. Get them on board! In order to create the desired outcome, ask yourself:
"What is the best result or gift that could come from this conversation?"
Examples of Desired Outcome include: In service of...
feeling connected again
clarity
restoring trust
creating a solution
mutual understanding
feeling heard
learning from this and doing better next time
problem-solving
clarifying agreements
feeling harmony as co-parents
feeling supported
Creating a desired outcome focuses everyone's attention on the shared values in the relationship. Consider:
What is at stake here?
What are the benefits of having this conversation?
How can having this conversation enhance our relationship?
Page 33: Permission (Reveal Your Level of Charge)
PERMISSION
3. Reveal Your Level of Charge
Let the other person know how intense the conversation feels for you. This gives the other more information with which they can assess if they feel available for the conversation at that moment. *For a refresher on the charge scale, please refer back to Practice R2 in RESOURCING.
For example, saying, “I want to talk about X, and I feel an 8 on the charge scale," lets the other know this is a more intense conversation, which could mean they need to do (or stop doing) something before agreeing to have the conversation. This could include RESOURCING themselves in some way. They may want some time to process before having the conversation, they may need a quieter or less distracting space, or they may need to find a time when they feel more rested, sober or fed.
Being on a higher level of the charge scale is very different from, “I want to talk about X, and I feel a 1 on the charge scale.” The person being asked may feel ready immediately. For example, they may feel that they can give their attention to listen to a “charge 1” and continue doing what they might, such as driving, prepping food, folding laundry, exercising, etc.
To share your level of charge you would say:
I feel a "__" on the charge scale (intensity level of out of 10).*
* If the person you are talking to does not know the concept of “charge scale” you can either teach them this distinction or share your level of intensity in a way that makes sense to them.
Page 34: Permission (Time Frame & Willingness)
PERMISSION
4. Estimate the Time Frame
Do your best to guess how long you think the conversation might take:
"I think it will take ___ minutes/hours."
5. Ask if they are willing to have this conversation
How to ask:
"Would you be willing to have this conversation with me?”
Responding to a YES.
If YES, thank them, and decide when and where.
YES, Right Now - If they are a YES to speaking right now, thank them and you can move to the 'Clearing the AIR Conversation'.
YES, Later - If they are a YES to the conversation, but a NO to right now, negotiate until you both have a clear agreement and a specific plan on when and where the conversation will happen. Move on to the “Clearing the AIR Conversation.” I encourage you to WRITE DOWN YOUR PLAN!
Who is responsible for contacting whom?
Where are you meeting?
What is the date and time of your meeting?
How are you contacting each other (face to face, call, zoom, etc.)?
Page 35: Permission (Responding to a NO)
PERMISSION
5. Ask if they are willing to have this conversation
Responding to a NO
If NO, ask with curiosity if they are willing to share more.*
NO - If they are a NO, thank them and ask if they are open to sharing more about their NO or if there is anything you can do that could make them feel safe or available for this conversation.*
Examples of needs they might have:
Time to RESOURCE or process
Change of setting
A support person
More information
I teach consent, and one of the concepts I teach is “NO is a complete sentence" and you don't have to explain why you are a NO. And if someone gives you a NO, honor that and do not push. In the context of The REPAIR Process in your significant relationships in your life, it can be healthy to bring curiosity as to why someone is a NO, especially if this is a significant conversation for you.
Depending on the level of activation you feel about the conflict, in case they are not willing to have this conversation, you may want a RESOURCING plan or a support person on standby.
Page 36: Permission (Putting It All Together)
PERMISSION
PERMISSION FRAME: Putting it all together.
PERMISSION THE REPAIR PROCESS
I would like to have a conversation with you about _____ (headline of conversation).
In service of _____ (Desired outcome).
I feel a ___ on the charge scale (intensity level 1-10).
I think it will take this much time _____ (minutes/hours).
Would you be willing to have this conversation with me?
Thank them for their response.
If YES, decide when, where, and how.
If NO, with curiosity, ask if they are willing to share more.
Page 37: Self-Practice P2
SELF-PRACTICE P2
FRAMING THE PERMISSION STEP
PURPOSE
TO PRACTICE THE PERMISSION STEP ON YOUR OWN SO IT BECOMES EASIER AND MORE NATURAL BEFORE PRACTICING WITH OTHERS.
WHAT YOU NEED: • 20 MINUTES • JOURNAL OR AUDIO RECORD • QUIET SPACE • TIME AFTER THE PRACTICE TO RESOURCE AS THIS EXERCISE MAY STIR UP EMOTIONS
GUIDANCE
List a total of 4 unresolved conflicts that have a variety of charges:
a. Choose 1 unresolved conflict that has a level of charge between 1-3.
b. Choose 1 unresolved conflict that has a level of charge between 4-5.
c. Choose 1 unresolved conflict that has a level of charge between 6-7.
d. Choose 1 unresolved conflict that has a level of charge between 8-10.
e.* Keep this list handy for later as you will revisit this list
Write, type or audio record the PERMISSION step for all 4 unresolved conflicts you listed above.
a. I'd like to have a conversation about _____ (headline of conversation),
b. in service of _____ (desired outcome).
c. I feel a "__" on the charge scale (intensity level 1-10).
d. I think it will take "___" (minutes/hours).
e. Would you be willing to have this conversation with me?
i. Thank them. If YES, decide when, where, and how.
ii. Thank them. If NO, curiously ask if they are willing to share more.
This exercise may have stirred up emotions. To support your nervous system and regulation, complete the following:
a. Do a quick body scan and note what you notice in your body (sensation, emotion, posture, etc.).
b. Identify your level of intensity on the charge scale.
c. Dedicate 5-10 minutes to RESOURCING yourself.
d. Identify your level of intensity on the charge scale.
e. If you still feel activated, practice more RESOURCING.
Page 38: Relational-Practice P3
RELATIONAL-PRACTICE P3
FRAMING THE PERMISSION STEP WITH A PARTNER
PURPOSE
TO PRACTICE THE PERMISSION STEP WITH A PRACTICE PARTNER
WHAT YOU NEED: • 20 MINUTES • COMPASSIONATE PRACTICE PARTNER • QUIET SPACE • 2 UNRESOLVED CONFLICTS (WITH CHARGE LEVEL BETWEEN 1-5) • TIME AFTER THE PRACTICE TO RESOURCE AS THIS EXERCISE MAY STIR UP EMOTIONS
GUIDANCE
Choose two of the unresolved conflicts you worked on from the previous P2 Self-Practice (a and b). Ensure these conflicts do not involve the practice partner. Role-play the PERMISSION step for two rounds. Role-play means your practice partner is temporarily stepping into the role of the person you are in conflict with.
Give the name of the person or the role you want your practice partner to play. Ask your practice partner if they are willing to temporarily step into that role.
Practice partner states out loud “I am temporarily stepping into _____ (name the person's name or role).”
Practice the PERMISSION step:
a. I'd like to have a conversation about _____ (headline of conversation),
b. in service of _____ (desired outcome).
c. I feel a "__" on the charge scale (intensity level 1-10).
d. I think it will take "___" (minutes/hours).
e. Would you be willing to have this conversation with me?
i. Thank them. If YES, decide when, where, and how.
ii. Thank them. If NO, curiously ask if they are willing to share more.
Practice partner, when you are asked to have the conversation:
a. Round 1 - Be amenable and say, “Yes, I am willing to have the conversation right now”.
b. Round 2 - Say you are not ready now and negotiate to find a time/place to have the conversation.
De-Role to complete each round.
a. Practice partner will physically shake their body out and acknowledge stepping out of the role by saying, “I am no longer _____ (role-played name). I am now _____ (your name)."
b. The person who shared acknowledges their practice partner and says, “You are no longer _____ (role-play name). You are _____ (name of practice partner).
Page 39: Clearing the Air Conversation
CLEARING THE AIR CONVERSATION
Now that you have completed REP (RESOURCING, EMPATHY, and PERMISSION), it is time to move to ‘Clearing the AIR Conversation' (ACKNOWLEDGE, IMPACT and RESTORE INTEGRITY).
Meta Concepts for “Clearing the AIR Conversation”
The bigger the conflict, the slower you go. I cannot emphasize enough the importance of going slow! As mentioned before, going slow almost never has negative consequences, and going too fast is one of the biggest culprits for people not being able to resolve conflicts. You know you are going slow enough if, at any point, either person can paraphrase accurately.
Paraphrase. Summarize what you heard the person say such that they feel understood. Paraphrasing supports moving at a slower pace, and it ensures both people understand one another. When we move too quickly, we can create more misunderstandings, which can be more time consuming and counterproductive.
Reminder: When learning these steps, practice on lower intensity and simpler conflicts. Do not start with the most intense or most complex conflicts.
Page 40: Acknowledge (Introduction)
ACKNOWLEDGE
In the ACKNOWLEDGE step you will get on the same page on what happened by validating one another's perception of their experience drawing from memory and interpretation of the event.
The goal is to arrive at a shared understanding of one another's perceived experiences. This is called Shared Reality.
The underpinning value of ACKNOWLEDGE is for both people to feel validated based on their experiences of the events.
When you share your experience based on what did or did not happen, you can include:
Objective facts
Owned experiences and interpretations
ACKNOWLEDGE is about getting on the same page about WHAT we experienced versus HOW we felt about it. You will get to share your feelings about the event in the next step in The REPAIR Process (IMPACT).
About Shared Reality
It is common for two people to not remember an event in the same way. Because individuals create their reality based on their perception and memory, it is important to take the time to understand one another's reality.
Let's begin to understand Shared Reality by oversimplifying it into two categories: Simple Shared Reality and Complex Shared Reality.
Simple Shared Reality - When our realities match and we can agree on what did or did not happen.
Complex Shared Reality - When our realities don't match, but we come to a shared understanding of how we each experienced what did or did not happen.
Page 41: Acknowledge (Examples)
ACKNOWLEDGE
Simple Shared Reality Example
Both people agree: “The text stated you would be home by 5:00pm and you arrived at 6:00pm.”
Complex Shared Reality Examples
When it comes to Complex Shared Reality, your realities do not match based on differing memories and/or differing interpretations.
Example of Complex Shared Reality with a mismatched memory
Person A: “You said you would do the dishes before going to work."
Person B: “I said I will try to do the dishes before going to work."
Person A: “Oh, I now understand you remember saying you would try to do the dishes.”
Person B: “Oh, I now understand you heard me say I would do the dishes."
Example of Complex Shared Reality with a mismatched interpretation
Person A: “You said you would be home early and you arrived late.”
Person B: “I said I will be home early and I arrived at 6:00, which is early for me."
Person A: “Oh, I now understand that 6:00 is early for you."
Person B: “Oh, I now understand that 6:00 is not early for you."
In these examples, the realities don't match, but they get to a shared understanding of one another's realities.
Page 42: Acknowledge (Memory and Subjective Reality)
ACKNOWLEDGE
About Memory and Subjective Reality
Consider when bystanders witness an accident or an intense situation. When each bystander reports what they saw, each is likely to report very different observations. Differing details stood out to the bystanders, influenced also by watching the accident from different angles. So each reports different things, even though they witnessed the same accident.
[Image of two people standing on opposite sides of a number drawn on the ground. One sees it as a "6" and the other sees it as a "9". The text below says: "Just because you are right, does not mean, I am wrong. You just haven't seen life from my side."]
Image Credit: The Education Tree
This is just one example of where we may think our memory is crystal clear and encompasses all realities. It's common for us to not have the complete picture of what actually happened, especially in more activated instances. We also need to be mindful of making the assumption that everyone holds the same reality of what happened when really there are many realities occurring at once.
Another concept to keep in mind is that memory can become less accurate with time, even though we may think it remains intact. Elizabeth Phelps, an NYU Psychologist shares in the show Mind Explained, “As it relates to memory, after one year 50% of the details change in someone's memory, even though most people are convinced they are 100% accurate.”
This is why it is imperative BEFORE talking about how we feel about something that happened, we need to find some common ground through establishing Shared Reality.
As you see in the image below, we each have our own realities, my reality and your reality, and where those realities intersect is what creates Shared Reality.
Page 43: Acknowledge (Owning Your Experience)
ACKNOWLEDGE
[Venn diagram showing two overlapping circles labeled "My Reality" and "Their Reality". The overlapping section is labeled "Shared Reality".]
Image Credit: Dr.Hazel-Grace Yates, 2023
Owning Your Experience
You are the only one who is the authority of your experience. No one has the authority over someone else's experience. Owning Your Experience is when you are speaking from your own experience. Owning Your Experience is a fundamental skill for creating safety, connection, and intimacy.
A basic guideline to know whether or not you are owning your experience is to evaluate if your statement is arguable. When you own your experience, it cannot be argued with. For example, if I say, “It's cold in here,” someone could argue or disagree with me. If I say, “I feel cold in here,” no one can argue that that's MY experience.
A quick way to create tension and divisiveness is to NOT Own Your Experience.
What you might be doing when you are NOT Owning Your Experience:
Blaming - "You are being confusing"
Assuming - “I can tell you are mad.”
Imposing your truth onto someone else - "You know that is not right."
Limiting or labeling others - “You are acting like a child."
Creating confusion - “You know when you...” vs. saying "When I...”
The potential impacts on others when you are NOT Owning Your Experience becomes the need for others to:
Defend
Justify
Protect
Explain
Page 44: Acknowledge (Comparison Table)
ACKNOWLEDGE
NOT OWNING YOUR EXPERIENCE	OWNING YOUR EXPERIENCE
You are beautiful.	I find you to be beautiful.
This is so fun.	I am having fun.
You are angry.	You seem angry to me.
We are all paying attention.	It seems we are all paying attention.
I feel like you look tired.*	You seem tired to me.
I feel that you are being mean.*	The way you are being feels mean to me.
* Take note that the last two examples start with “I” which may seem like you are owning your experience because you start the sentence with “I.” Even though these sentences start with “I” when the word “you” is added, you are no longer owning your experience and it becomes a projection onto the other's experience.
My Reality	Their Reality	Shared Reality
Not Owning Their Experience	You slammed the door.	The door was not slammed.	
Owning Their Experience	I experienced you slamming the door.	I didn't experience slamming the door.	The door was shut loud enough for me to hear it from upstairs.
Not Owning Their Experience	The kitchen is messy.	The kitchen is tidy.	
Owning Their Experience	I think the kitchen is messy.	The kitchen seems tidy to me.	There are dirty dishes in the sink.
Page 45: Acknowledge (Process Steps)
ACKNOWLEDGE
How to do the ACKNOWLEDGE step:
ACKNOWLEDGE PROCESS
Choose who is going to share first, and the other person will listen and paraphrase what they heard them say.
*Reminder to the speaker: speak in “small enough chunks.” If the other person can paraphrase you accurately, it may be a good indication you are speaking in “small enough chunks". How small “small enough chunks" are will depend on the intensity of the conflict, pacing, skill level, and people's capacity for reflective listening.
The listener will either acknowledge and agree on what the speaker said or acknowledge they have a different memory. If the listener has a different memory, they will have a chance to share their memory while the other paraphrases what they said.
Continue this process until both people can agree upon a Shared Reality (not what you felt or thought about the experience). Keep in mind you will either have Simple Shared Reality or Complex Shared Reality. You may now move to the next step in The REPAIR Process - IMPACT.
Page 46: Acknowledge (Flowchart)
ACKNOWLEDGE
The ACKNOWLEDGE step recognizes and validates each other's perceived experiences, drawing from their memory and interpretation of the event. The goal is to arrive at a shared understanding of one another's perceived experiences. This is called, Shared Reality.
In order to move to the IMPACT step, you will either create:
Simple Shared Reality - realities match and both agree on what did or did not happen.
Complex Shared Reality - realities don't match, but both come to a shared understanding of how each experienced what did or did not happen.
[Flowchart diagram illustrating the ACKNOWLEDGE process]
Start -> "I'd like to do the ACKNOWLEDGE step with you. Are you open to creating a shared reality with me?"
If No -> "Get Curious! What is needed in order for the person to feel willing to create shared reality?"
If Yes -> Speaker: "What I remember happening is..." Listener: "What I am hearing you say is... Did I get that right?"
If Listener Agrees -> Simple Shared Reality
If Listener Disagrees -> "Switch Roles. Listener becomes the speaker. Speaker becomes the listener." -> Speaker: "What I remember happening is..." Listener: "What I am hearing you say is... Did I get that right?" -> "Both parties fully understand one another's reality, albeit different realities." -> Complex Shared Reality
Page 47: Acknowledge (The Power of the Step)
ACKNOWLEDGE
The Power of the ACKNOWLEDGE Step
You will likely not agree on ALL of the facts, and it is important to get Shared Reality on the most pertinent facts connected to the conflict you want to resolve. Avoid getting stuck on every single detail, especially the details that are not relevant to the conflict.
Sometimes simply acknowledging what you did/didn't do can bring a lot of relief in The REPAIR Process. When someone can acknowledge what they did or didn't do, they are taking responsibility for their actions or inactions. This in and of itself can be RESOURCING for both parties. Although it may be uncomfortable for someone to ACKNOWLEDGE what they did or didn't do, it can be liberating for both parties.
What if we are struggling to get to Shared Reality?
First of all, it makes sense that you are struggling with this. Getting to Shared Reality can be the biggest challenge in The REPAIR Process. It takes a lot of skill, capacity and internal resources to get to Shared Reality especially when there is big hurt and the realities differ.
Page 48: Acknowledge (Suggestions for Struggles)
ACKNOWLEDGE
Here are some suggestions if you are struggling to get to Shared Reality:
If you cannot get to Shared Reality at a bare minimum, it is powerful to acknowledge verbally that you don't have Shared Reality. By agreeing you do not have Shared Reality, you are actually creating Shared Reality.
It may be useful to find a trusted friend or professional to hear and understand what you experienced. If you can feel heard and validated by someone else, it can be RESOURCING, which may allow you to come to the conversation with more spaciousness.
Because this can be incredibly challenging, this could be an instance to get outside support. This could look like getting individual support or meditation support from a therapist, trusted friend or coach.
If you have Complex Shared Reality, meaning your realities don't match, but you understand one another's realities, you can each move through the Clearing the AIR Conversation based on each person's reality. Moving through the rest of the process will require you both to listen to the other's experience while suspending your own experience, which takes an incredible amount of skill and capacity.
You may try pausing the REPAIR process and make a plan to come back to it. It is possible that giving time and space may support things becoming more clear or gaining access to information that was not there before.
Page 49: Acknowledge (Example Conversation)
ACKNOWLEDGE
An example of how the ACKNOWLEDGE step conversation could go: *
Tip: If the listener is unable to paraphrase, you may be speaking either too quickly or in too big of chunks. Take a breath, slow down and share in smaller bites. Remember, the more intense or complicated conversations require you to go SLOW!
Speaker: “I would like to create Shared Reality. I would like to first start sharing about what did or did not happen. Are you open to this, and would you be willing to paraphrase what you heard me say?”
Listener: Yes. (If they are a no, negotiate so both parties feel ready to engage in the ACKNOWLEDGE step).
Speaker: "What I remember happening is _____ (objective facts, owned experience or interpretations).”
Listener: “What I am hearing you say is _____ (paraphrase). Did I get that right?"
Speaker: Thank them for paraphrasing, and clarify if anything felt missing or not quite accurate.
Listener: “I acknowledge that _____ did/didn't happen.”
Listener Bonus: The listener can take responsibility by saying, “I take responsibility that I did/didn't do _____."
Speaker: "Is there anything missing you want to add that seems pertinent for this conversation?"
* Note, this is not a formula or how the conversation will go every time. Every conversation will be unique and full of 'if/then,' so use this ‘example conversation' as a guide.
Page 50: Acknowledge (Recap Table)
ACKNOWLEDGE
Objective Facts vs. Subjective Interpretation, from PERMISSION step
OBJECTIVE STATEMENTS	SUBJECTIVE STATEMENTS
You shut the door loud enough that I could hear it outside.	You slammed the door in anger.
We left the party before they served cake.	We left the party super early.
You did not look me in the eyes when you came home.	You completely ignored me when you came home.
I paraphrased what you said.	I totally understand what you are feeling.
Page 51: Relational-Practice A1
RELATIONAL-PRACTICE A1
REALITY CHECK EXERCISE
PURPOSE
TO UNDERSTAND THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN OBJECTIVE FACTS AND SUBJECTIVE INTERPRETATIONS. THIS IS A FOUNDATIONAL SKILL IN THE ACKNOWLEDGE STEP.
WHAT YOU NEED: • 10 MINUTES • PRACTICE PARTNER • QUIET SPACE
GUIDANCE
Select who will be partners A and B. You will go back and forth for 10 minutes, sharing objective dynamic facts. An objective dynamic fact is something that is observably true about your practice partner and can change from moment to moment.
Examples of what to say:
"Your elbow is resting on your left leg,” “Your eyes are open,” “Your shoulders are facing towards your left,” “Your head is tilted down,” “You are smiling,” “You took a breath.”
Examples of what not to say:
"You have beautiful hair." Beautiful is subjective, and their hair won't change moment to moment. “You're wearing a shirt that is flattering.” Flattering is subjective, and wearing that shirt won't change moment to moment.
Partner A: Use the following sentence structure to describe Partner B.
“I notice (an objective dynamic fact about your practice partner)..."
"...and I am imagining/and the story I am making up is/and I am making that mean... (share your interpretation)
Ask, “Is that true?/Did I get that right?"
Example: "I notice your eyebrows are moving towards the center of your forehead; the story I make up is you're confused. Did I get that right?
Partner B: Let Partner A know if this is true for you. If it is not true, you can share with Partner A what is more true for you.
Exercise Credit: Amy Silverman
Page 52: Relational-Practice A2
RELATIONAL-PRACTICE A2
REFLECTIVE LISTENING
PURPOSE
TO PRACTICE REFLECTIVE LISTENING BY DEEPLY LISTENING AND REFLECTING BACK.
WHAT YOU NEED: • 10 MINUTES • PRACTICE PARTNER • QUIET SPACE
GUIDANCE
Partner A: Share what has been on your heart recently for 2 minutes.
Partner B: “What I am hearing you say is _____. Did I get that right?"
Partner B: Affirm or clarify.
Partner A: If they clarified, “Thank you; what I heard you say is _____. Did I get that right?"
Continue until Partner A feels fully heard, then switch roles.
Page 53: Relational-Practice A3
RELATIONAL-PRACTICE A3
SHARED REALITY
PURPOSE
TO PRACTICE CREATING SHARED REALITY WITH A PRACTICE PARTNER.
WHAT YOU NEED: • 10 MINUTES • PRACTICE PARTNER • PAPER & PEN OR SOMETHING TO WRITE WITH • A PRACTICE PARTNER WITH WHOM YOU HAVE RECENTLY HAD A SHARED EXPERIENCE SUCH AS SHARING A MEAL, GOING ON A WALK/DRIVE, GOING TO AN EVENT, ETC. THIS DOES NOT NEED TO INCLUDE ANY SORT of CONFLICT, SIMPLY A SHARED EXPERIENCE.
GUIDANCE
You will practice creating Shared Reality based on a recent shared experience you had with your practice partner.
You can fill in the Venn diagram below: “My Reality” “Shared Reality” and “Their Reality.”
Feel free to follow the example of the ACKNOWLEDGE step conversation above.
Page 54: Relational-Practice A3 (Diagram)
RELATIONAL-PRACTICE A3
SHARED REALITY
[Venn diagram with two overlapping circles labeled "My Reality" and "Their Reality". The overlapping section is labeled "Shared Reality". This diagram is for the user to fill out.]
Page 55: Impact (Introduction)
IMPACT
This is the heart of The REPAIR process. This is the chance to feel deeply seen and understood by one another.
Now that you have created Shared Reality based on what did or didn't happen, both people get to share about the impact the event had on one another.
Anytime something does or doesn't happen, there is an impact of some kind (can be positive, negative, or neutral).
As social beings, we are constantly impacting one another's experience. By slowing down and putting language to the way in which we are impacted, it gives us insight into ourselves and allows the other person to know us more intimately.
Impacts can include:
Body sensations (temperature, contraction, posture, tingles, etc.)
Emotions (happy, mad, sad, grief, bliss, joy, anger, bored, apathetic, etc.)
Story creation (“I started thinking that I'm not important to you,” or “you don't care about me,” or “our relationship is in jeopardy.")
Loss (lost money, lost trust, lost time waiting, etc.)
Reputation impact (“How my friends/family/children/neighbors/co-workers may see me now”)
How do you decide who shares the IMPACT first?
The reason why The REPAIR Process is an art rather than an exact scientific formula is that each REPAIR conversation is unique. This means there isn't a hard and fast rule of who shares first and who shares second. This needs to be negotiated.
Here are some suggestions to help you figure out who shares IMPACT first:
Generally speaking, the person who shares their impact first (the speaker) is ideally the person who felt hurt by the conflict.
In some cases, both people might have felt hurt by the conflict, in which case you would negotiate who shares first.
Perhaps a better guide is determining who has more RESOURCE or capacity to listen wholeheartedly to the IMPACT. The person who is more RESOURCED can listen first and share second.
Page 56: Impact (How to Share)
IMPACT
The speaker may begin sharing IMPACT once you have decided who will share first.
How to share impact (Speaker):
Name the Shared Reality that was agreed on from the ACKNOWLEDGE step.
Share the impact. The aim is to share a bite-sized amount of IMPACT you experienced so that the listener can paraphrase successfully.
Examples:
“When you came home after 8 pm, the impact on me was I felt sad and tension in my belly, and the story I made up is you forgot about me.”
“When I received your text that you want to organize a potluck at our home, the impact on me was I felt elated and energized."
"When you raised your voice towards me in front of the children, the impact on me was I felt embarrassed and concerned that the children might have lost trust in or respect for us.”
“When you did not show up at the theater on time, the impact on me was I felt worried about your well-being, and we lost our seats and opportunity to see the performance.”
Speaker Tips:
As you are speaking, remember to RESOURCE yourself and remember to track your somatic experience and RESOURCE as you are sharing. Go slow. Take breaths.
Consider that as you share your IMPACT, it may be emotionally difficult for the listener to hear, and their paraphrasing may not be perfect. The listener may not get it right on the first attempt. I encourage you to thank them for attempting to paraphrase and offer them corrections or clarifications until you feel they have accurately heard you.
If you are processing out loud or you realize your share was big and long, offer to synthesize to make your share more concise.
Refer back to the impact options to support your articulation (body sensations, emotions, story creation, loss, reputation impact).
You don't have to share or know all of the IMPACT right away. One way to go slow is to focus on one IMPACT at a time. Other impacts may arise; give yourself spaciousness and grace. You can circle back to it as more layers of IMPACT get revealed with time and through the conversation.
Page 57: Impact (How to Listen)
IMPACT
How to listen and paraphrase impact (Listener):
Listen to their share based on their reality versus your reality.
Listen from your heart and activate your empathy muscles! As you listen, imagine putting yourself in their shoes.
Take a deep breath after they share the IMPACT.
Tune into the gratitude for their willingness to share and thank them from that place. “Thank you for sharing that with me.” *Staying in your heart and feeling gratitude is a really important part, and it may not always be easy. Try on the perspective (or practice) that someone sharing their impact is a gift.
Paraphrase: Repeat back the essence or summary of what you heard them say and confirm its accuracy.
a. "Thank you. What I heard you say is____. Did I get that right?"
b. Feel free to ask them to share in smaller bites if they are sharing more than you are able to paraphrase. “I'm wondering if you can share that impact again in a way that synthesizes or summarizes your share."
c. Continue to clarify until the speaker feels heard and understood or "totally gotten.”
Once the speaker feels complete in sharing the IMPACT and feels heard, reflect on the impact you felt on your heart when you heard the speaker share. "Hearing you share that, I notice _____."
Examples:
Hearing you share that I notice...
"feeling tender and sad.”
“feeling more connected with you.”
"my heart feels full of care.”
"that it makes sense you have that impact."
Page 58: Impact (Listener Tips)
IMPACT
Listener Tips:
As you are listening, remember to RESOURCE yourself, especially if it is difficult to hear the impact you had on them. You can do this by feeling your feet on the ground, placing your hand on your heart to remind yourself to listen from your heart, breathe deeply, hold something that brings you comfort or strength, or ask for a pause if things are going too quickly.
Listen from your heart; as you are listening, imagine putting yourself in their shoes and feel what it is like to be them. There is a huge distinction between robotically stating or parroting back what someone said versus allowing yourself to be emotionally impacted.
Get in the habit of thanking them for sharing, as it takes great courage and vulnerability to honestly share the IMPACT.
It is NOT imperative that you paraphrase exactly right. It is more important that you are demonstrating presence and deep care. And if the speaker offers a clarification or correction, express appreciation and reiterate what you heard them say.
"Thank you for clarifying; what I am hearing you say is _____ (paraphrase the clarification they offered). Did I get that right?"
Page 59: Impact (Example Conversation)
IMPACT
Example of an IMPACT conversation
Speaker: 1. “When _____ (state the Shared Reality created from the ACKNOWLEDGE step)," 2. "the impact on me was _____ (share your body sensations, emotions, story creation, loss, and/or reputation impacts).”
Listener: "Thank you. What I heard you say is _____; did I get that right?"
Speaker: "Thank you; _____ (confirm its accuracy or provide a clarification)”
Listener: If the speaker offers a clarification, paraphrase again: “Thank you, what I heard you say is _____. Did I get that right?"
Listener: Once you confirm that the speaker feels fully heard, you can ask them, “Is there any other IMPACT you want to share with me?”
Continue repeating this process until the person feels complete and fully heard and understood.
Listener Bonus: “Hearing you share that, I notice _____ “ (reflect on the impact you felt on your heart when you heard the speaker share).
Switching Roles
Once you have completed this process, switch roles. The Listener becomes the Speaker, and the Speaker becomes the Listener, and you start the process over.
Page 60: Relational-Practice I1
RELATIONAL-PRACTICE I1
NOTICING EXERCISE
PURPOSE
TO PRACTICE NOTICING AND NAMING OUR SENSATIONS AND EMOTIONS SO THAT WE CAN BECOME MORE FLUENT SHARING IMPACT.
WHAT YOU NEED: • 4 MINUTES • A PRACTICE PARTNER
GUIDANCE
In order to share IMPACT, we must be aware and articulate how we feel. The Noticing Exercise gives you a chance to practice noticing and naming your felt sensations and emotions, increasing your fluency with sharing IMPACT.
This exercise may seem incredibly simple, and do not be fooled, this is one of the most powerful skills and exercises to deepen our capacity to relate to one another.
Make sure you are sharing feelings that are either emotions (happy, nervous, aroused, bored, calm etc.) or bodily sensations (pressure, temperature, tingles, numbness, pain etc.).
Keep in mind:
If you say, "I feel like” or “I feel that" you are most likely sharing a thought instead of a feeling.
Be sure to not use the term “makes me feel” as this puts the responsibility on the other and is not owning one's experience.
You are ONLY saying the feeling. You are NOT explaining or giving a reason why you might be feeling this way.
Examples:
"I notice feeling sad"
"I notice feeling warmth in my belly"
"I notice feeling excited"
“I notice feeling tension in my back"
Go back and forth for 4 minutes:
Partner A: “In being with you I notice..."
Partner B: “In hearing that I notice...”
Partner A: “In hearing that I notice...”
Partner B: “In hearing that I notice...”

Page 61: Self-Practice I2
SELF-PRACTICE I2
ARTICULATING IMPACT
PURPOSE
TO PRACTICE THE IMPACT STEP ON YOUR OWN SO THAT IT BECOMES EASIER AND MORE NATURAL BEFORE PRACTICING WITH OTHERS.
WHAT YOU NEED: • 10 MINUTES • QUIET SPACE • JOURNAL OR AUDIO RECORD • THE LIST OF THE 4 UNRESOLVED CONFLICTS FROM PRACTICE P2 IN THE PERMISSION STEP
GUIDANCE
Write out or record the IMPACT share for the 4 unresolved conflicts.
a. When _____ (shared reality)
b. The impact on me was _____ (Ex. body sensations, emotions, story creation, loss, or reputation impact).
Page 62: Relational Practice I3
RELATIONAL PRACTICE I3
SHARING IMPACT with the other
PURPOSE
TO PRACTICE THE IMPACT STEP WITH A PARTNER SO THAT IT BECOMES EASIER AND MORE NATURAL BEFORE PRACTICING WITH OTHERS.
WHAT YOU NEED: • 15 MINUTES • COMPASSIONATE PRACTICE PARTNER • THE LIST OF THE 4 UNRESOLVED CONFLICTS FROM PRACTICE P2 IN THE PERMISSION STEP
GUIDANCE
Choose two of the unresolved conflicts you worked on in your solo IMPACT practice. (Ensure these conflicts do not involve the practice partner.)
Ask your partner if they are willing to role play as you share the IMPACT from an unresolved conflict. If they are a yes, give the person's name or the role you want your practice partner to play.
Practice partner states out loud, “I am temporarily stepping into _____ (name the person's name or role)."
Person Sharing Impact (A): “When _____ (shared reality), the impact on me was _____ (Ex. body sensations, emotions, story creation, loss, or reputation impact).
Practice partner (B): “Thank you for sharing. What I heard you say is _____; did I get that right?"
Person Sharing Impact (A): “Thank you; _____ (confirm its accuracy or provide a clarification)”
Practice partner(B): “Thank you; what I heard you say is _____. Did I get that right?"
Practice partner(B): “Hearing you share that, I notice _____ “ (reflect on the impact you felt on your heart when you heard the speaker share).
Page 63: Relational Practice I3 (Continued)
RELATIONAL PRACTICE I3
SHARING IMPACT with the other
Keep going until they feel fully heard.
De-Role to complete the round.
a. Practice partner: Physically shake your body out and acknowledge you are stepping out of the role by saying, “I am no longer _____ (role-played name). I am now _____ (your name).”
b. The person who shared acknowledges their practice partner and says, “You are no longer _____ (role-play name). You are _____ (name of practice partner).
Once you complete, repeat steps 1-5 with the second unresolved conflict for a total of two practice rounds.
Page 64: Restoring Integrity (Introduction)
RESTORING INTEGRITY
The final step in The REPAIR Process is RESTORING INTEGRITY in the relationship (wholeness, resilience, trust, health). The definition of conflict in this workbook is a break in trust or connection. Therefore, the aim of RESTORING INTEGRITY is to restore trust or connection. A reminder that in many cases, the act of repairing the relationship can make the relationship even stronger than it was before.
Trust Water Bucket Analogy
Imagine a bucket full of water, and the water represents the trust in your relationship. If the bucket gets knocked and water spills out, it will take time for the water to be replenished. Generally, the more the bucket gets knocked, or if a lot of water spills out, the longer it could take to refill the bucket. How intensely the bucket has been knocked over or how often water has been spilled also plays a role in what's needed to replenish the water.
Meta concepts of RESTORING INTEGRITY
There are many ways integrity can be restored.
Each person and circumstance is unique and requires different actions and pacing for trust and connection to be restored.
This process is Bidirectional, which means either the person who felt hurt or the person who caused hurt can initiate or request any of the restore integrity actions from the menu of options, including Remorse, Restorative Actions, Redo, and Rewrite.
It is an ongoing process and not always a ‘one-and-done thing.'
If you are the person who is working towards restoring integrity, it's not up to you to decide when trust has been restored. You may be demonstrating trustworthy behavior long before the other person feels that trust has been restored. It is up to the person who feels the loss of trust or connection to determine if and/or when integrity has been restored.
Page 65: Restoring Integrity (Menu & Remorse)
RESTORING INTEGRITY
RESTORING INTEGRITY MENU
Remorse
Restorative Actions
Revise Agreements
Rewrite Stories
Redo
1. REMORSE
Express an apology, regret, and/or accountability.
Avoid saying, “I'm sorry, but..." The “but” can negate the apology.
Be specific about what you regret, wish you had or hadn't done, or had done differently.
Ensure you are being congruent with your words and your way of being (tone, emotions, body language, facial expression).
You can verbalize taking ownership and responsibility for what you did/didn't do.
Get to know the “remorse" language that resonates best with your partner.
Page 66: Restoring Integrity (Remorse Examples)
RESTORING INTEGRITY
EXAMPLE PHRASES OF EXPRESSING REMORSE
Apology
I am sorry.
I apologize.
I am deeply sorry.
I want to express my sincere apology.
Regret
I wish I could take it back.
I regret that I did that.
I wish I had done that differently.
I feel remorse.
Accountability
I really blew it.
I made a mistake.
I see the impact my actions had.
I own and take responsibility for what I did.
"I acted in a way that was outside of my integrity/values when I didn't tell you as soon as I knew I would be late. I feel regret, and I am committed to doing better next time.”
Page 67: Restoring Integrity (Restorative Actions)
RESTORING INTEGRITY
2. RESTORATIVE ACTIONS
Taking on actions and putting effort in doing what's needed to restore trust.
This step is bidirectional, meaning the person who felt hurt can make requests, and the person who caused hurt can offer suggestions. If you felt hurt in the conflict and can imagine what restorative actions would feel repairing, ask for what you want.
Have you ever had someone ask you the well-meaning question, "What can I do to make up for what I have done?" While it may feel endearing, appreciated, or helpful, it could also be difficult for the person who felt harmed to come up with something. If this is the case, this may put the burden and emotional labor on the person who felt harmed.
EXAMPLES OF RESTORATIVE ACTIONS
Making a meal
Paying for therapy
Cleaning up a mess (physical, emotional, social, professional)
Enrolling in a self-growth course
Offering acts of service such as doing chores or services
Giving a gift
Offering physical touch
Example: "I had to cancel our last two meetings, so I will reach out with options for when I could meet with you again."
Page 68: Restoring Integrity (Restorative Action Stories)
RESTORING INTEGRITY
Restorative Action Stories
Here are two personal stories that depict someone offering a restorative action idea:
Personal Story One
I had a past partner who lived long distance and he smoked cigarettes. We had an agreement that 24 hours before I came to visit him, he would stop smoking. We were on the phone just before I flew to see him and he said, “I am just having a smoke break.” When I pointed out that he broke our agreement, he immediately felt the impact of breaking trust. He offered as a way to make up for his mistake that for the next month he would not smoke, and that each time he wanted to smoke he would think about how much he loved me and his commitment to restore my trust.
Personal Story Two (Trigger Warning: Violence)
My Dad raised me with lots of love and care, but he was also quite militant with his discipline, which included yelling and belting. I learned in my 30s that the way my dad raised me had long-lasting negative impacts, and the behavior was actually abusive. It made sense that I chose boyfriends who were abusive towards me in various ways. After much therapy, I was ready to tell my dad the truth about the impacts of his actions. I was blown away by his listening, receptivity and ownership of what he had done. He said, “Had I understood the impacts, I never would have treated you that way." He called me the next day and said, “I can't go back and change things, and I want to pay for your therapy for the rest of your life.”
Page 69: Restoring Integrity (Revise Agreements)
RESTORING INTEGRITY
3. REVISE AGREEMENTS
Revise Agreements
Are there any agreements or promises that need to be revised?
In some cases, you may have agreements that weren't explicit or written and may need to be verbalized and written out.
EXAMPLES OF AGREEMENTS
We always take our shoes off before we walk in the house.
We text to let the other person know as soon as we know we will be late.
We do not engage in emotional processing over text.
If either one of us says, “pause” in our conversation, we stop and take a breath.
We ask permission before offering advice or coaching.
If we notice a desire for someone else, we tell each other.
Page 70: Restoring Integrity (Rewrite Stories)
RESTORING INTEGRITY
4. REWRITE STORIES
Purpose: Updating the stories we create about the other so that we are relating to one another in present time versus relating to them from the past.
If you refer back to the IMPACT step, you will see “Story Creation" as one of the possible impacts. For example, “The story I made up is you don't care about me.”
You can rewrite your stories by asking yourself:
What was the story I created about myself or the other?
Is there currently a more true story about myself or the other?
Example Story: I was headed to a client's appointment when my motorcycle broke down, and my partner had to rescue me. When he arrived, I hoped he would be so excited to rescue me since I had rescued him with so much joy three times that year. When he arrived, he was less than enthusiastic, and I created the story, “he is not excited to be in service to me and doesn't care for me as much as I do for him."
Once I learned what was happening for him that morning that required him to drop everything to rescue me, I realized why he was less than enthusiastic to fix my bike. I got to rewrite my story: “He cares deeply about me and loves showing up in service for me.”
Page 71: Restoring Integrity (Redo)
RESTORING INTEGRITY
5. REDO
Let's learn from the past and show up better in the future.
If you do not understand the mechanism of hurt, you run the risk of repeating the same hurt again and again. By doing a redo, you can learn where and how the ouch happened.
If you could go back in time, knowing what you know now:
What would both people have done differently?
How can we show up next time that would work even better?
Here you can optimize the very real concept that hindsight is 20/20, meaning when you look back on situations in the past, you see things more clearly that were not clear at the time.
When you take the time to go back through the incident from a more resourced and grounded space and say what would have worked even better, it supports the learning even more deeply and allows you to imagine what you might do in the future.
When you visualize and embody the Redo as if you have already taken the new actions, it supports your brain in making new neural pathways. The plasticity in our brain allows us to visualize scenes which actually support us in rewiring the patterns that we want!
A power Redo phrase is, “it would have been even better if I/you/we...”
Page 72: Restoring Integrity (Redo Examples & Self-Reflection)
RESTORING INTEGRITY
YOU CAN REWIND THE SITUATION AND OFFER REDOS SUCH AS...
I would have texted you as soon as I knew I was going to be late.
I would have called a friend to vent before coming to talk with you.
I would have asked permission before offering my help.
I would have said, “I need to RESOURCE before having this clearing conversation.”
RESTORING INTEGRITY PRACTICES
SELF-REFLECTION ON RESTORATIVE ACTIONS
Box 1: Restorative Actions others have done for you that have been helpful...
Box 2: Restorative Actions others have done for you that have NOT been helpful...
Box 3: Restorative Actions you have done for others that were helpful...
Box 4: Restorative Actions you have done for others that were NOT helpful...
Page 73: Self-Practice RA1 & RA2
SELF-PRACTICE RA1
RESTORATIVE ACTION REQUESTS
PURPOSE: PRACTICE CREATING RESTORATIVE ACTION REQUESTS.
WHAT YOU NEED: • 10 MINUTES • QUIET SPACE • JOURNAL • TIME AFTER PRACTICE TO RESOURCE, AS THIS EXERCISE MAY STIR UP EMOTIONS
GUIDANCE
Recall your list of 4 unresolved conflicts from the PERMISSION step (Self-Practice P2 - Permission).
Write out the restorative actions for all 4 unresolved conflicts that you would like to request in service of restoring integrity.
SELF-PRACTICE RA2
RESTORATIVE ACTION OFFERS
PURPOSE: PRACTICE CREATING RESTORATIVE ACTION OFFERS.
WHAT YOU NEED: • 10 MINUTES • QUIET SPACE • JOURNAL • TIME AFTER PRACTICE TO RESOURCE, AS THIS EXERCISE MAY STIR UP EMOTIONS
GUIDANCE
Call upon 4 conflicts where you caused hurt or harm to someone else (these can either be unresolved or resolved conflicts).
Write out at least one restorative action offer for all 4 conflicts.
Page 74: Relational Practice RA3 & Self Practice RA4
RELATIONAL PRACTICE RA3
REVISE AGREEMENTS
PURPOSE: PRACTICE WRITING OR REWRITING AGREEMENTS FROM A RESOLVED CONFLICT.
WHAT YOU NEED: • 10 MINUTES • QUIET SPACE • JOURNAL • A PRACTICE PARTNER WITH WHOM WHO HAVE RESOLVED CONFLICT
GUIDANCE
Have a conversation with your practice partner about the conflict you resolved.
From this resolution, are there any agreements you want to either write or re-write?
SELF PRACTICE RA4
REWRITE STORY
PURPOSE: PRACTICE REWRITING STORIES YOU CREATED INTO CURRENT REALITY STORIES.
WHAT YOU NEED: • 10 MINUTES • QUIET SPACE • PAPER/PEN (OPTIONAL)
GUIDANCE
Call upon two resolved conflicts in which you would like to rewrite a story you created.
Example: “I created the story that my partner did not care about me, and now that I understand the picture fully, what is more true is he cares deeply about me and he was busy when I needed his help."
Page 75: Relational-Practice RA5
RELATIONAL-PRACTICE RA5
PRACTICE A REDO
PURPOSE: PRACTICE A REDO FOR A RESOLVED CONFLICT.
WHAT YOU NEED: • 10 MINUTES • QUIET SPACE • A PRACTICE PARTNER WITH WHOM YOU HAVE RESOLVED A CONFLICT
GUIDANCE
Now that you have resolved this conflict, take a few minutes for each person to share what they would have done differently that may have worked even better.
Page 76: Putting it ALL Together in Practice
Putting it ALL Together in Practice
Find a practice partner with whom you have a level 1-3 charge, and go through the entire REPAIR process.
Find a practice partner with whom you have a level 3-5 charge, and go through the entire REPAIR process.
Find a practice partner with whom you have a level 5-7 charge, and go through the entire REPAIR process.
THE REPAIR PROCESS AT A GLANCE
R - RESOURCE: Ground yourself by discharging intensity and/or practicing subtler ways to resource your nervous system.
E - EMPATHY: Explore compassion for yourself and curiosity for the other.
P - PERMISSION: Get informed consent to have the conversation.
I'd like to have a conversation about _____ (headline of conversation),
in service of _____ (desired outcome).
I feel a ___ on the charge scale (intensity level 1-10).
I think it will take _____ (minutes/hours).
Would you be willing to have this conversation with me?
A - ACKNOWLEDGE: Get on the same page on what happened by creating simple or complex shared reality.
I - IMPACT: Fully hear one another's impact with care and empathy.
What I heard you say is...did I get that right?
R - RESTORE INTEGRITY: 5 Pathways
Remorse
Restorative Actions
Revise Agreements
Rewrite Stories
Redo
Page 77: REPAIR Afterthoughts
REPAIR AFTERTHOUGHTS
REPAIR is a process and not always a one time event. You may need to revisit some parts of the conversation. If something resurfaces multiple times, it's often a sign that some important element was not spoken and/or heard.
Gratitude: Express gratitude for the person willing to engage in this conversation; acknowledging their bravery, generosity, and labor.
Follow Up: Consider following up with the person some time after the REPAIR conversation to see how the conversation has settled.
Permission: Consider getting permission or asking if the person would welcome you to contact them at some point.
If you make a promise to follow up, then follow up! If you make a plan to follow up and then you don't, you have broken trust again.
Page 78: Celebrate Yourself
CELEBRATE YOURSELF
Do you remember the comment I made at the beginning of this workbook?
Most of us were not taught great conflict resolution skills and did not have healthy role models. Imagine for a moment how long you have been navigating conflict with the tools you have had access to.
Now consider the amount of new tools and practices you just learned in this process. I strongly invite you to celebrate yourself for putting in the love and work to improve your ability to create generative conflict in your relationships.
You did it and you are doing it! I want you to acknowledge yourself for any new awareness you now have and for the effort you have put into learning The REPAIR Process.
At the risk of sounding redundant, if there is anything I can leave you with as a strong suggestion: Continue practicing on “the small stuff.”
By doing this, the process becomes more natural and you will make it your own. And, most importantly, when the big stuff comes, you will have ingrained these tools and skills so deeply that you will have access to these tools when the charge is high.
May you find the love and enthusiasm for generative conflict.
May you feel ease and harmony in all of your relationships.
